README.md, before:

<img src="https://github.com/homedepot/go-clouddriver/blob/media/clouddriver.png" width="125" align="left">

# Go Clouddriver

Go Clouddriver is a rewrite of Spinnaker's [Clouddriver](https://github.com/spinnaker/clouddriver) microservice. It has an observed 95%+ decrease in CPU and memory load for Kubernetes operations.

Go Clouddriver brings many features to the table which allow it to perform better than Clouddriver OSS for production loads:
- it does not rely on `kubectl` and instead interfaces directly with the Kubernetes API for all operations
- it utilizes an in-memory cache store for Kubernetes API discovery
- it stores Kubernetes providers in a database, fronted by a simple CRUD API
- it removes over-complicated strategies such as [Cache All The Stuff](https://github.com/spinnaker/clouddriver/tree/master/cats), instead making live calls for all operations

Go Clouddriver is *not* an API complete implementation of Clouddriver OSS and only handles Kubernetes providers and operations. It is meant to be run in tandem with Clouddriver OSS. Visit [the wiki](https://github.com/homedepot/go-clouddriver/wiki) for feature support and intallation instructions.

## Getting Started

### Testing

Run from the root directory
```bash
make tools test
```

### Building

Run from the root directory
```bash
make build
```

### Running Locally

1) Go Clouddriver generates its access tokens using [Arcade](https://github.com/billiford/arcade) as a sidecar, so a working instance of Arcade will need to be running locally in order for Go Clouddriver to talk to Kubernetes clusters.

2) Export the Arcade API key (the same one you set up in step 1).
```bash
export ARCADE_API_KEY=test
```

3) Run Go Clouddriver.
```bash
make run
```

4) Create your first Kubernetes provider! Go Clouddriver runs on port 7002, so you'll make a POST to `localhost:7002/v1/kubernetes/providers`.
```bash
curl -XPOST localhost:7002/v1/kubernetes/providers -d '{
  "name": "test-provider",
  "host": "https://test-host",
  "caData": "test",
  "permissions": {
    "read": [
      "test-group"
    ],
    "write": [
      "test-group"
    ]
  }
}' | jq
```
And you should see the response
```json
{
  "name": "test-provider",
  "host": "https://test-host",
  "caData": "test",
  "permissions": {
    "read": [
      "test-group"
    ],
    "write": [
      "test-group"
    ]
  }
}
```
Running the command again will return a `409 Conflict` unless you change the name of the provider.

5) List your providers by calling the `/credentials` endpoint.
```bash
curl localhost:7002/credentials | jq
```

### Configuration

| Environment Variable | Description | Notes | Default Value |
|----------|:-------------:|-----------:|------------:|
| `ARCADE_API_KEY` | Needed to talk to [Arcade](https://github.com/billiford/arcade). | Required for most operations. ||
| `ARTIFACTS_CREDENTIALS_CONFIG_DIR` | Sets the directory for artifacts configuration. | Optional. Leave unset to use OSS Clouddriver's Artifacts API. ||
| `KUBERNETES_USE_DISK_CACHE` | Stores Kubernetes API discovery on disk instead of in-memory. || `false` |
| `DB_HOST` | Used to connect to MySQL database. | If not set will default to local SQLite database. ||
| `DB_NAME` | Used to connect to MySQL database. | If not set will default to local SQLite database. ||
| `DB_PASS` | Used to connect to MySQL database. | If not set will default to local SQLite database. ||
| `DB_USER` | Used to connect to MySQL database. | If not set will default to local SQLite database. ||
| `VERBOSE_REQUEST_LOGGING` | Logs all incoming request information. | Should only be used in non-production for testing. | `false` |


NOTE: If KUBERNETES_USE_DISK_CACHE environment variable is set to true, _kube-cache-volume_ persistent volume claim will be used. Please ensure that your PVC on the same namespace is created on your kubernetes cluster before the rollout of this variable set to avoid unexpected behaviors.

### MySQL Indexes and Cleanup

Go Clouddriver stores all deployed resource requests in its `kubernetes_resources` table, which needs to be cleaned up periodically. It also requires a few indexes
to work efficiently and properly for continued deployments over long periods of time.

#### Indexes

First, an index to help the Applications API remain efficient.
```sql
CREATE INDEX kind_account_name_kind_name_spinnaker_app_idx ON kubernetes_resources(account_name, kind, name, spinnaker_app);
```
Next, an index to assist in pulling "cluster" kinds from the `kubernetes_resources` table.
```sql
CREATE INDEX kind_idx ON kubernetes_resources(kind);
```
Next, an index to assist the Task API.
```sql
CREATE INDEX task_id_idx ON kubernetes_resources(task_id);
```
Finally, a couple of indexes on the provider read/write permissions tables to help the Credentials API and any queries to select providers from the database.
```sql
CREATE INDEX account_name_idx ON provider_read_permissions(account_name);
CREATE INDEX account_name_idx ON provider_write_permissions(account_name);
```

#### SQL Cleanup

The `kubernetes_resources` tables is incredibly important for storing the most-recent state of a cluster for the Kubernetes kinds we care about.

It is recommended to run the following cleanup statements *daily* to maintain a healthy state of onboarded Kubernetes clusters.
```sql
DELETE FROM kubernetes_resources where cluster = '' and timestamp < (NOW() - INTERVAL 6 HOUR);

DELETE t1 FROM kubernetes_resources t1
INNER JOIN kubernetes_resources t2
WHERE
    t1.id < t2.id AND
    t1.account_name = t2.account_name AND
    t1.api_group = t2.api_group AND
    t1.name = t2.name AND
    t1.namespace = t2.namespace AND
    t1.resource = t2.resource AND
    t1.version = t2.version AND
    t1.kind = t2.kind AND
    t1.cluster = t2.cluster AND
    t1.timestamp < (NOW() - INTERVAL 6 HOUR);
```

Commit message:

Adding snippet of deployment manifest removals
Snippet to show the deployment YML manifest modifications to avoid the usage of "kube-cache-volume" PVC.

README.md, after:

<img src="https://github.com/homedepot/go-clouddriver/blob/media/clouddriver.png" width="125" align="left">

# Go Clouddriver

Go Clouddriver is a rewrite of Spinnaker's [Clouddriver](https://github.com/spinnaker/clouddriver) microservice. It has an observed 95%+ decrease in CPU and memory load for Kubernetes operations.

Go Clouddriver brings many features to the table which allow it to perform better than Clouddriver OSS for production loads:
- it does not rely on `kubectl` and instead interfaces directly with the Kubernetes API for all operations
- it utilizes an in-memory cache store for Kubernetes API discovery
- it stores Kubernetes providers in a database, fronted by a simple CRUD API
- it removes over-complicated strategies such as [Cache All The Stuff](https://github.com/spinnaker/clouddriver/tree/master/cats), instead making live calls for all operations

Go Clouddriver is *not* an API complete implementation of Clouddriver OSS and only handles Kubernetes providers and operations. It is meant to be run in tandem with Clouddriver OSS. Visit [the wiki](https://github.com/homedepot/go-clouddriver/wiki) for feature support and intallation instructions.

## Getting Started

### Testing

Run from the root directory
```bash
make tools test
```

### Building

Run from the root directory
```bash
make build
```

### Running Locally

1) Go Clouddriver generates its access tokens using [Arcade](https://github.com/billiford/arcade) as a sidecar, so a working instance of Arcade will need to be running locally in order for Go Clouddriver to talk to Kubernetes clusters.

2) Export the Arcade API key (the same one you set up in step 1).
```bash
export ARCADE_API_KEY=test
```

3) Run Go Clouddriver.
```bash
make run
```

4) Create your first Kubernetes provider! Go Clouddriver runs on port 7002, so you'll make a POST to `localhost:7002/v1/kubernetes/providers`.
```bash
curl -XPOST localhost:7002/v1/kubernetes/providers -d '{
  "name": "test-provider",
  "host": "https://test-host",
  "caData": "test",
  "permissions": {
    "read": [
      "test-group"
    ],
    "write": [
      "test-group"
    ]
  }
}' | jq
```
And you should see the response
```json
{
  "name": "test-provider",
  "host": "https://test-host",
  "caData": "test",
  "permissions": {
    "read": [
      "test-group"
    ],
    "write": [
      "test-group"
    ]
  }
}
```
Running the command again will return a `409 Conflict` unless you change the name of the provider.

5) List your providers by calling the `/credentials` endpoint.
```bash
curl localhost:7002/credentials | jq
```

### Configuration

| Environment Variable | Description | Notes | Default Value |
|----------|:-------------:|-----------:|------------:|
| `ARCADE_API_KEY` | Needed to talk to [Arcade](https://github.com/billiford/arcade). | Required for most operations. ||
| `ARTIFACTS_CREDENTIALS_CONFIG_DIR` | Sets the directory for artifacts configuration. | Optional. Leave unset to use OSS Clouddriver's Artifacts API. ||
| `KUBERNETES_USE_DISK_CACHE` | Stores Kubernetes API discovery on disk instead of in-memory. || `false` |
| `DB_HOST` | Used to connect to MySQL database. | If not set will default to local SQLite database. ||
| `DB_NAME` | Used to connect to MySQL database. | If not set will default to local SQLite database. ||
| `DB_PASS` | Used to connect to MySQL database. | If not set will default to local SQLite database. ||
| `DB_USER` | Used to connect to MySQL database. | If not set will default to local SQLite database. ||
| `VERBOSE_REQUEST_LOGGING` | Logs all incoming request information. | Should only be used in non-production for testing. | `false` |


NOTE: If KUBERNETES_USE_DISK_CACHE environment variable is set to true, _kube-cache-volume_ persistent volume claim will be used. Please ensure that your PVC on the same namespace is created on your kubernetes cluster before the rollout of this variable set to avoid unexpected behaviors.
The following snippet shows the trims of the go-clouddriver deployment YML manifest to avoid the usage of _kube-cache-volume_ PVC when KUBERNETES_USE_DISK_CACHE environment variable is set to false.
```
...
         resources:
            requests:
              cpu: '3'
              memory: 4Gi
# REMOVE FROM HERE
          volumeMounts:
            - mountPath: /var/kube/cache
              name: kube-cache-volume
# REMOVE UNTIL HERE
        - args:
            - for f in /vault/secrets/*.env; do source $f; done; arcade
          command:
...
...
volumes:
  - name: arcade-providers-volume
    secret:
      secretName: arcade-providers
# REMOVE FROM HERE
  - name: kube-cache-volume
    emptyDir: {}
# REMOVE UNTIL HERE
...
```

### MySQL Indexes and Cleanup

Go Clouddriver stores all deployed resource requests in its `kubernetes_resources` table, which needs to be cleaned up periodically. It also requires a few indexes
to work efficiently and properly for continued deployments over long periods of time.

#### Indexes

First, an index to help the Applications API remain efficient.
```sql
CREATE INDEX kind_account_name_kind_name_spinnaker_app_idx ON kubernetes_resources(account_name, kind, name, spinnaker_app);
```
Next, an index to assist in pulling "cluster" kinds from the `kubernetes_resources` table.
```sql
CREATE INDEX kind_idx ON kubernetes_resources(kind);
```
Next, an index to assist the Task API.
```sql
CREATE INDEX task_id_idx ON kubernetes_resources(task_id);
```
Finally, a couple of indexes on the provider read/write permissions tables to help the Credentials API and any queries to select providers from the database.
```sql
CREATE INDEX account_name_idx ON provider_read_permissions(account_name);
CREATE INDEX account_name_idx ON provider_write_permissions(account_name);
```

#### SQL Cleanup

The `kubernetes_resources` tables is incredibly important for storing the most-recent state of a cluster for the Kubernetes kinds we care about.

It is recommended to run the following cleanup statements *daily* to maintain a healthy state of onboarded Kubernetes clusters.
```sql
DELETE FROM kubernetes_resources where cluster = '' and timestamp < (NOW() - INTERVAL 6 HOUR);

DELETE t1 FROM kubernetes_resources t1
INNER JOIN kubernetes_resources t2
WHERE
    t1.id < t2.id AND
    t1.account_name = t2.account_name AND
    t1.api_group = t2.api_group AND
    t1.name = t2.name AND
    t1.namespace = t2.namespace AND
    t1.resource = t2.resource AND
    t1.version = t2.version AND
    t1.kind = t2.kind AND
    t1.cluster = t2.cluster AND
    t1.timestamp < (NOW() - INTERVAL 6 HOUR);
```
